could this be the next Leman moment
could this be the end of the financial
system as we know
it you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you we are always being
told that you see the Articles you see
the titles each and every day it's the
end of the world but in today's video
we're going to look at the truth okay
and I'm going to show you what's going
on right now it is a concern because the
financial system is fraudulent it's weak
if you look at it on any different level
using any metric you know that there is
a crisis that is underlying all of this
only covered up by printing a heck of a
lot of money and doing so at the
detriment to you you look when you print
trillions of dollars you can kick the
can down the road the debt can increase
the deficits can get worse and of course
it's all on your back you can't get away
from it but that burden continues to
grow ever larger all on you because the
currency is being devalued I want to
tell you what's happening right now you
thought svb Silicon Valley Bank was
something that was 2023 that's old news
it's way out of the news cycle but it
continues till today March is a big time
March is a big concern because it is the
one-year anniversary of the crisis
beginning and now we have the Echoes
coming right now for us and I want to
explain that we are looking today at
something I covered just recently but of
course I've been highlighting the
weaknesses ever since March I believe
the 11th of 23 New York Community Bank
Corp so
NYCB you might see these uh that coming
up in your feed somewhere well looking
at this right now this stock has been
punished all the way back to levels we
have not seen since the
mid90s something crazy is going on it
it's punished worse than during the
financial
crisis worse than what we saw in 2023
when all of these Banks started to go
under we can see that domestic deposits
on a not seasonally adjusted basis have
been punished why what's going on what's
Happening Here I believe that this Bank
specifically there's a run on this Bank
going on right now and while it will be
FDIC insured nobody's going to lose
anything that's not the problem the
problem is the number one first of all
FDIC couldn't bail anything out if it
wanted to in reality we know that but
you have an absolute admission to the
frailness and fragility of the financial
system that's a lot of FS Wall Street is
experienced in a case of deja vu it's
been nearly a year since the collapse of
three us Regional lenders left fin
institutions and Regulators scrambling
to prevent the spread of a banking
crisis investors are worried that
they're back in familiar territory so
you have an issue here because you're
seeing previously low interest rates
they took out these loans they started
um many businesses took out loans the
banks were financing their
operations dealing with low interest
rates trying to take on a little bit
more risk buying things like mortgage
back Securities to get a little bit more
yield the value of those pieces of
garbage fell down to their you know
nothingness now they're stuck with the
losses they've got problems because
interest rates have now gone up and so
they're in trouble unable to deal with
the obvious problems here that was just
a small like you saw that for just a
second
however the problem continues until
today office and Retail property
valuations have been falling since
2020 everything of course people can't
work or people working from home and so
on the fed's efforts to fight inflation
Rising interest rates have hurt credit
dependent
Industries there are many of course
every Everybody every industry is really
affected by it but certainly the banks
have been punished as a result
especially the regional Banks the small
lenders that deals with the commercial
lenders especially commercial big boys
US Banks hold about $2.7 trillion in
commercial real estate loans the
majority of that about
80% is held by smaller Regional Banks
the ones that the US government hasn't
classified as too big to fail oh my
goodness this is bigger than what I've
told you people say you exaggerate buddy
you just trying to fear Munger buddy
80% 80% I was quoting
50% it's
80% this is huge the exposure is so
concentrated that the risk is now so
high this is where the weakest link is
I've been warning about it for years not
saying it's going to crash tomorrow but
just saying if there's a problem it's
going to be right here not in
residential so much that's not the issue
that we experienced back in you know
2007 this is a very different issue
going on and of course as I covered just
recently in fact did a video about it
commercial real estate a lot of that
debt is about to mature and in a trouble
Market Regional Banks might have
problems collecting on those loans more
than $2.2 trillion will come due between
now and
2027 here we have it though
into the banks that are failing at this
time almost a year after the failure of
three midsize US Banks sparked an
industry crisis investors and Regulators
are once again bracing for turmoil among
Regional lenders this time due to Rising
defaults in commercial mortgages and
they're saying the Tipping Point might
be New York Community Bank reported
major losses on his real estate loans
last week the stocks dropped as a result
of that Dragon stocks of other Regional
Banks down with it in an uneasy echo of
last spring when the government was
forced to throw emergency lifelines to
keep the system from toppling this is
what I've been talking about warning
about for literally one year saying that
crisis ain't over you can't sweep it
under the rug this is the biggest
problem we haven't seen that many
failures since there was of course many
big ones Signature Bank svb you had
credit s huge and then it kind of
disappeared right didn't really see that
didn't hear about that too much and now
it's coming back
up of course why is this company
specifically want to talk about well
it's funny enough NYCB was initially a
benefactor of those failures scooping up
Signature Bank last year after it was
shut down by Regulators following a run
of deposit
it's like a zombie where you know that
debt that it holds suddenly makes that
next Bank a zombie as well I mean that's
what's going on here very crazy to see
this all unfold in the way that it has
this is a big concern not because of
NYCB no it's because what like nobody
was talking about this three months ago
right think about it a couple months ago
nobody was talking about that now
suddenly NYCB going down this is the
bank that like like who's going to win
as a result of this who is it it's the
JPS it's the Goldman's it's the big boys
they will scoop it all up and of course
they're doing everybody a favor like
that and there's no mention of yeah the
fact that you know there's there's no
more competition there's no Regulators
not oh we don't need that all we got to
have have a you know a solution to the
crisis that's right and one by one by
one we go more into
this world where the few control the
many it needs a crisis for it to happen
it's so organic it's so natural and yet
of course it is all
contrived and why CBS shares plunge as
much as 15 % after the downgrade they
had been downgraded saying this stuff is
junk as a result of everything that's
been happening and has predicted the
stock keeps going down it's not going to
stop okay Regional Banks getting
hammered absolutely hammered and as they
say here plunging office occupancy rates
and high interest rates are a big reason
the shift in working practices at the
height of the situation from 2020 Royal
commercial real estate and lenders could
face a maturity wall of as much as $1.5
trillion in commercial real estate uh
loans set to come this year and next us
Regional Banks provide the bulk of such
loans putting them at a particular risk
look this is exactly what I've been
talking about all along everybody on
this channel knows exactly what's going
on it's not a surprise to you but I want
to show you because this channel is all
about document what happens as it does
and the warnings that come before it but
only those with maximum patience could
see it's like hey exactly exactly I'm
not a tayer I'm not a fortune teller but
I know what goes on because I follow it
and I will not waver I don't
flip-flop okay I'm not a pancake guess
it be the spatula that's doing the
flipping and the
flopping that's not what I do all right
what I'm here to do is document exactly
what's going on that's it I will not be
doing this uh for long term but as long
as I do I will bring
you what I can it's all right here mody
Cuts NYCB to junk extending the sharp
declines in shares downgrade is the
latest blow to the bank you could see it
here that is painful very painful uh
look at that I'm sure you know some
people probably tried to buy the dip on
that one not a smart move get out of the
regional Banks until they make some sort
of like hey we're just going to bail
everything out the government's going to
take them all over like if they just
made some
widespread we own all the banks now I
mean maybe that would be enough but I
wouldn't even want to just don't touch
it with the 10 football all right in
fact I wouldn't touch it with your 10
footle all right but you can see what's
going on signature
deal and a separate one with Flagstar
Bank in 2022 put NYCB passed a key
regulatory threshold of100 billion in
assets subjecting it to stricter
Regulatory and capital standards NYCB
said uh also said that it had charged
off two large loans and set aside
Millions for potential future losses
this is what goes on here oh now
suddenly it's more stringent uhoh now we
start seeing the problems arise that's
the thing how many other Banks out there
we just haven't you know they're at 99
billion and we haven't found out about
all of this there are the shadow Banks
there are the non-banks right things
that don't they're not exactly a bank
but they're doing all the same things a
bank are doing I cover these 100 times
before that are just there that are just
rotting that are just rotting you know
when you have a bundle of fruit a bundle
bananas or just a bunch of fruit and
you're looking at it on the surface
level everything's all good but you see
the fruit flies going around H what
could it be I wonder and you look at
that on the bottom side there's that
rotten one and not only is that one
banana rotten and it's getting from the
bottom it's getting all the way to the
top
rotting it's also rotting the ones
beside it that's important it's a
metaphor of course but this is something
that actually happens inside of the
financial
industry this is a problem that cannot
be resolved by simply you know extending
the btfp the bank term funding program
it won't resolve it hey let let's extend
the helping hand oh I got an idea why
don't we print a whole bunch of money
that's not going to resolve it either
you see what's happening here
they want to be able to control
everything central banks and government
they need a crisis in order to bring
that in and in the next Crisis there
will be more money printing than we have
ever seen before there will be failures
there's no question about it but in the
end a devaluation of your currency is
the result as I say this I'm telling you
they're going to do more devaluation
they're going to inflate your currency
what would what would you do if that was
the understanding what are the actions
that you would take go home start
thinking about that writing it down
wherever you are make uh time make time
today to actually think about this am I
doing the right things am I making the
right
adjustments as a result of these
conditions most people or not I want to
invite you into Compass if you need
financial education or believe that
somebody needs Financial education go to
my website it's totally free no email no
paywall no nothing it's Compass the
money gps.com hit that thumbs up button
I do appreciate that very much when you
do you're supporting me you're
supporting this Channel and I want to
thank you for doing that as always tune
in tomorrow
and I've got some great info for you
I'll see you then take care